[Music]
I'm gonna take you on a walk here around
my campus until Hong Yoon and China as
always I'm kind of surrounded by flower
blossoms on all side this is about 2:00
in the afternoon in in the middle of
winter so the Sun is bright but it's
actually not cold out here I'm not I'm
not cold but it is it is so bright the
Sun that I can't see anything on on the
cameras display so I'm really filming
blind here with the sun shining down so
that's one of the most peculiar features
the University Oh beautiful little
butterfly going past if you got that one
of those peculiar features this
university several students complain to
me that they were expecting a lake on
the brochures when they signed up for
this particular college there were
illustrating a lake next to this very
impressive dam you can see they know how
to build waterworks around here but the
long-term plan is to reroute the city's
main river to flow past the university
so I'm guessing at that time the area
behind that dam will fill up and we'll
have a lava lake of some kind so again I
can't really see what I'm filming here
I'm just gonna pause you should be able
to see on the horizon there so I can try
to zoom in but I'm really blinded by the
Sun you should be able to see the
outline of the golden tower we walk down
the steps in the earlier videos I should
both the golden tower and the silver
tower are beautiful little silhouettes
to my eyes here but as I say I'm uh I'm
blinded by the sun's I don't know what
I'm filming anyway so this is a far on
the other parts of town this University
campus we've got anyway this is a brand
new campus it's just been built so all
the trees are still young you can
imagine just a few years there'll be a
lot more shade
provided by these trees and I assume
some of these flowerbeds will fill in
too there are mountains in the distance
there if you're looking on the horizon
I'm not really showing you the core of
the campus partly because that's the
busier part of the campus probably
because this is the walk I'm happening
to take today but back there sort of
behind me you can see some big buildings
that's the main library building on the
left come here a little bit closer to
the empty patch of ground that would be
a lake so at the end of this walk I'm
gonna take you on there's actually a
scale model of what the finished
university will look like when the
construction is complete this University
will have a gym which currently doesn't
sort of one of the things that really
packs my life a gym at the bottom of a
sort of grand staircase that you're not
gonna get to see I used to get my
workout while I was here teaching by
running up and down the stairs in
between my classes so my class is
normally just a 10-minute break between
periods there's an airplane going to
Dongs tiny airport the one Airport that
serves both among Shaw and really really
is the next major town down the road
release right in the Burmese border
anyway there is currently no GM on
campus there are basketball courts and
few other basic sports field facilities
like that areas where the students play
sports that you don't get to see on this
particular walk she get to see the view
of the mountains well the thing is we've
got kind of bamboo forests filling in
the horizon here so I'm not sure how
much the view you're gonna get through
the bamboo thicket but in any case I
used to run out during my 10-minute
break go down the staircase and go back
up again sometimes doing that twice ten
minutes wasn't that much time to get
back to class and start lecturing but I
could do that something like four times
during a work day and that's add quite a
lot to total amount of exercise
case this is filming a couple hours
later this is after I've just finished
my my second as well my fourth of four
class that's supposed to account I'm in
the midway point in these steps we got a
whole lot of students coming up the
stairs in the distance there I can see
the mountains at the farmer's field see
the sports fields I guess these guys are
coming up the steps after just having
played I don't know basketball I'm
almost at the bottom of the stairs here
looking up the great staircase this will
be the main entrance the University when
they finished building s there's the
view of the soccer pitch and then here's
the Inc incomplete and it's the
University the gym is going to be built
in what's currently a farmer's field on
the left you can see some of the
construction come here already but
actually this time of day if you if you
look at the mountains in the background
I can see a man I know how well the
camera picks up any of this stuff but I
can really see the layers and layers of
mountains go out the background much
more clearly now so the Sun is setting
now this is after no this is after 5:00
p.m. not yet 6:00 p.m. but 5:30 and so
you can see mountains upon mountains go
out in the background here is a great
propaganda message a big red banner
coming across the street the propaganda
messages do change every few weeks I'd
say sofa heads they're peeking through
peeking through the forest that's not
looking towards downtown mancha downtown
Moshe is sort of in the same direction
as the golden tower the Buddhist temple
you may or may not have seen in Verizon
there before with a city like this in
general it's difficult to imagine how
much it'll change if you were to come
back just five years from now this is
really the last hour of dil Hong's
obscurity to hung as province and of
mouches obscurity as a city they're
building a train line right now that
will run all the way from China to India
all the way from Beijing to Kunming
then from Kunming west to end
through Myanmar so that's gonna connect
us to of course immediately Myanmar
Bangladesh and then keep going west to
India so that's the grand staircase I
don't forget a sense of just how big it
is here but I used to run up down these
stairs to get my exercise while teaching
class and you can see it's under
construction so when that's completed
there's currently a sports field there's
a soccer field in there you can't see
but when that's complete there's gonna
be a gym on the Left there's gonna be a
decorative pond and the river will run
under that bridge there's the river it's
just a trickle at the moment you can see
they got big plans to this bridge I hope
that all this farmland won't be
destroyed it looks gorgeous right now
with the mountains receding into the
distance not much water in the river
this time of year I really don't know if
that's gonna change or not on the scale
model as you saw they seem to be
expecting they seem to be expecting
great things from this river for it to
fill up a couple of different decorative
ponds I don't know and here you get a
hint at the other Dehon what surrounds
us just outside of Mancha the cropland
stretching under the distance and of
course the beautiful mountains and there
you can see those white houses that's
really like a suburban housing
detachment over there I can clearly see
a dragon fruit reminder that we are in
the tropics
today's a cool day as the Sun is setting
I can see dragon fruit and I can see
papaya trees not too many just stand
above five papaya trees and then all
kinds of other crops that I certainly
can't identify this distance some
plasticulture stand of trees over there
that's it and then if it's not
completely blinding you the Sun looking
back to the campus heard me beyond the
gate the grand stairway leading me back
to my place to employ there we go we got
a couple of guys walking on the steps
just to give us a sense of human scale
and I think the Sun is not shining too
directly in her eyes this is my last day
on the job my last day on campus
and as far as I know I will never return
to do home it's very likely I will never
return to China so farewell to a chapter
in my life including the chapter and
which I used to run up and down these
stairs
so anyway sorry I was just commenting
that this is really the last the last
hour of dil Hong and Mancha being an
obscure place because once that train
line is built it will be connected to
the outside world in a way that it never
has been before currently to get here by
bus is fully 12 hours I could say 12
hours plus you know more than 12 hours
so you know if you get on yeah if you
get on the bus at 6 a.m. you are lucky
to get here by 6 p.m. I would say 14
hours is a more reasonable 14 hours or
16 hours is a workable estimate but it's
a beautiful bus ride it goes through the
mountains you want to get on it early in
the morning so you get the view now
going at night but so still today in
2017 that's the bus ride from Kunming de
Mancha so it really is a remote place
even if it doesn't look at that remote
when you just look at the distances in
the map you have to keep in mind how how
high the mountains are what's kept us
isolated here you know historically and
even still presently anyway yeah I was
commenting before as we passed this
propaganda poster going the other way
that we do get new propaganda every few
weeks for me most memorably there was a
period of time when all the propaganda
was trying to get you to join the army
trying to get you to join the Chinese
army and you know I could I could
understand pretty plainly worded I can
understand the propaganda message on
most of those posters and some of them I
sat down you know with my dictionary and
I took a moment to take a moment to
unravel what they were getting at but
it's very difficult for me to imagine
any of the students here joining the
Chinese army partly to the
gender-balanced this used to be a
Teachers College
so we're you know the majority of
students weren't training to these
school teachers which is a majority
female profession so you had most
female students my own students the vast
majority of them are female really have
three or four male students in all my
classes combined and hundreds of females
so when I say it's not like it's a 60/40
split and the women of course are not
going to be inclined to join the army
especially not if they're qualified
smooth yeah
well joy give shape in huh
that's one of the residue nozbe
attraction it's not that common here not
that many professors know me and say hi
to me on campus is the ones who speak
English or especially quietly show me a
joy uh oh she is one of the she teaches
I think both English and Burmese I think
she teaches English because we do we are
foreign languages Department here isn't
just European languages like English and
French we also teach adjacent Southeast
Asian languages like Burmese Thai
Cambodian and we teach the local
indigenous languages gene pool gene pool
which is also known as catch in and the
Hong guy so anyway um that's slightly
derailed my train of thought anyway I
was just commenting that you know
socioeconomically and in terms of gender
bells so here's a here's a stand of
here's a stand of bamboo going in the
view over there you should be able to
see the sports field is that really
filming blind as long as tube right here
there is a soccer field that you can see
over there and then this way peeking
through the trees in the bamboo you get
a view of the beautiful sometimes
they're verdant green and sometimes like
now they're a bit more yellow from from
the Sun drying out the stubble in the
fields anyway I remember that there was
a big campaign for a couple of months
where they had all this new property
it's on campus trying to encourage
students to sign up and join the the
Chinese army and you know it was the
whole variety of messages
messages about bravery messages about
seeing the world message about make your
parents proud
and you know I remember right after that
we had a campaign about not dropping out
of school but I wondered I wondered of
what they were hoping in recruiting was
to recruit the students who were
thinking about dropping out or or
actually dropping out I do especially
like this shaded parking lot but don't
know if everything to show you yeah I
think I think there's no view if I take
you take you to the edge of this parking
lot you're just gonna see well you can
see the mountains in the distance all
right that's worth filming that's we're
filling before I go inside and show you
the scale model of what the University
of Holby this is a university where the
vast majority of students live in
residence and this is the thing I was
gonna say whether it's under the heading
of you know the army recruitment or any
other topic here
there can we see the mountains in the
distance there you go maybe somehow it's
better to film here or film in the
sunlight just look at the horizon
carefully you can see row after row of
mountains going off today a little bit
hazy very bright but a little bit hazy
depending on the clarity how much the
mountains you can see will vary from day
by day but my students do not by any
means come just from this local province
of this local area they come from all
over China and so if you think about it
a student who's chosen to come and live
here to become a schoolteacher to pursue
another profession so I should say this
this Pro this University used to be a
normal University aka a teacher training
University but it's been upgraded now to
be a full University from any other
subjects as well it's it's not just a
Teachers College it's general university
but if you come here from across China
to have this experience and have this
education and leave as a qualified
schoolteacher
those students that then will be the
least likely to consider signing up to
go to the Burmese border to defend the
country against the civil war that is
indeed ongoing right next door
we're in tremendous peace and security
here these trees are not to tropical
wonder if that was an intentional choice
not to have palm trees here
oh here we go here are a few palms but a
lot of these are more temperate trees me
because we're up on the top of a hill
and they were concerned about getting a
bit cold in the winter you know yeah
would you uh do leadership Ian just
making a short film to show this model
so one of my colleagues here another
professor has just walked up this is new
you should send them up I think this is
a new model so I didn't know this so shy
well I mean even when you only good
gentian fungi so you should even the
Jensen bug that just seems like email so
right now I work out at home but if I
come back in a few years they'll be a
gym and this also I show them so you
there's gonna be a river going a river
and a lake there and then also a lake in
about well back here back here some of
my students complain to me they said
when they decide was yeah they said when
they decided to come to this university
they expected there to be a there to be
a lake and there's no you can still see
the fish you you see the fish did you
see sit minute so we had a lot of rain a
few months ago I mean this is now winter
but I guess at right after it rained it
was full of water for a little piece
honestly no I don't see the families and
this right part you see the the just
nice small shadow oh I dunno so the fish
are the fish are struggling to survive
in our in our little pond as the pond
gets smaller and smaller the two weeks
ago that's really not of water yeah well
remember we had we had a lot of rain for
a few months but now there's no rain at
all no anyway a few of my students did
complain they wanted they wanted there
to be a big lake so in the future I
think they'll move the river
and then they will do more they'll be
more water anyway there you go and you
get a sense of the huge scale of the
student housing because we have students
who come here from all over China yes
those buildings down there the buildings
on the buildings on the top of the hill
are all finished but in some of these
over here I think this is not finished
here we have the basketball courts and
as the Sun is setting behind me blocking
the view downtown there is really the
center of the campus so I don't know
what the constant was having a dead tree
at the center of the campus you can see
up the top of the hill
that's the canteen where the students
may or may not choose deep at lunch
beautifully manicured roads leading off
in all directions tell the other parts
of the campus and those build big
buildings in the background beyond our
sort of central park here this little
garden park area all those big buildings
in a row our student housing and if i
zoom in you can see that pretty clearly
because they've all got their laundry
hanging out on the on the porch and
those students in many ways their lives
here in mancha are beautiful sure it's a
contrast whatever cold and polluted part
of China they come from that here it's
warm and tropical surrounded by tropical
trees and tropical fruit and not
polluted not overpopulated however they
are sleeping with six students to a room
in bunk beds three students per bed so
in some ways as a university student in
your in Bangka life is hard
[Music]
all right there you go as the Sun sets
the end of my long long work day you can
see the Golden Temple seemingly glowing
and gold
in fact it's illuminated on the top of
that distant Hill the Sun sets over the
basketball courts I see my final final
farewell to uh the home feature college
bonus yen